src/hw-8/Assignment_8_Luis_Maria.md, before:

# 1) Current progress

[The full project repository can be found here](https://github.com/Tep1g/sensor-data-processing)

## Bluetooth communication

I've successfully implemented and tested Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) communication between the RPI Pico and my desktop PC. The microcontroller periodically transmits a 16-bit value over BLE using the MicroPython `aioble` library (and a configured timer interrupt peripheral). The desktop PC receives and stores every one of these values to a list using interrupt requests from the `Bleak` Python bluetooth library.

#### RPi Pico MicroPython Script
```py
import aioble
import asyncio
import bluetooth
from machine import Pin
from sense import Sensor

# Device name
DEVICE_NAME = "temp-sense"

# Custom service
SERVICE_UUID = bluetooth.UUID(0x9999)

# org.bluetooth.characteristic.analog
ANALOG_UUID = bluetooth.UUID(0x25A8)

# org.bluetooth.characteristic.gap.appearance.xml
GATT_APPEARANCE_GENERIC_SENSOR = const(1344)

ADV_INTERVAL_US = const(250000)

LED_GPIO = const(16)
ADC_PORT = const(2)
SAMPLING_RATE_MS = const(500)
TIMER_ID = const(-1)

async def main():
    service = aioble.Service(SERVICE_UUID)
    characteristic = aioble.Characteristic(service, ANALOG_UUID, read=True, notify=True)
    aioble.register_services(service)

    Sensor(adc_port=ADC_PORT, sampling_rate_ms=SAMPLING_RATE_MS, timer_id=TIMER_ID, bt_char=characteristic)

    led = Pin(LED_GPIO, Pin.OUT)
    led.value(0)
    while True:
        async with await aioble.advertise(
            ADV_INTERVAL_US,
            name=DEVICE_NAME,
            services=[SERVICE_UUID],
            appearance=GATT_APPEARANCE_GENERIC_SENSOR,
        ) as connection: #type: ignore
            led.value(1)
            await connection.disconnected(timeout_ms=None)
            led.value(0)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

## Data processing

I've added data processing functions that get accessed by a desktop Python script. These functions take the 16-bit readings, convert them to temperatures, and use the `scipy` library's least squares linear curve fit function to generate the parameters for a a decaying exponential equation that represents the temperature curve of a hot liquid cooling down to room temperature.

#### Desktop Data Processing Script
```py
import argparse
import asyncio
import data_processing as dp
import psql_db
from client_bt import ClientBT

_ANALOG_UUID = "000025a8-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb"
_DEVICE_NAME = "temp-sense"

async def main():
    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
    parser.add_argument('-s', '--sampling_duration', type=int, required=True)
    sampling_duration = parser.parse_args().sampling_duration

    db = psql_db.Database
    db.get_params()

    bt = ClientBT(device_name=_DEVICE_NAME, analog_uuid=_ANALOG_UUID)
    await bt.receive_measurements(duration=sampling_duration)

    (a, b, T_amb) = dp.get_decay_params(data=bt.data)

    db.connect()
    db.create_table()
    db.add_record(duration=sampling_duration, a=a, b=b, T_amb=T_amb)
    db.disconnect()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

## PSQL Database

I've added methods for storing and retrieving the parameters of the generated decaying exponential equation using `psycopg2`.

## Graphing

I've also created a separate desktop Python script for retrieving the decaying exponential equation parameters (from the PSQL DB) and plotting it using `numpy`.

#### Desktop Graphing Script
```py
import psql_db
from data_graphing import plot_temp_func

if __name__ == "__main__":
    db = psql_db.Database
    db.get_params()
    db.connect()
    records = db.get_all_records()
    for record in records:
        print(record)

    db.disconnect()

    data_id = int(input("Enter data_id for desired dataset: "))
    for record in records:
        if record[0] == data_id:
            duration = record[2]
            a = record[3]
            b = record[4]
            T_amb = record[5]

    plot_temp_func(duration_s=duration, a=a, b=b, T_amb=T_amb)
```

Commit message:

fix some stuff in the completed section

src/hw-8/Assignment_8_Luis_Maria.md, after:

# 1) Completed Stuff

[The full project repository can be found here (some branches may not yet be merged to main)](https://github.com/Tep1g/sensor-data-processing)

## Bluetooth communication

I've successfully implemented and tested Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) communication between the RPi Pico and my desktop PC. The microcontroller periodically transmits a 16-bit value over BLE using the MicroPython `aioble` library (and a configured timer interrupt). The desktop PC receives and stores each of these values, to a list, using interrupt requests over a set period of time. The `Bleak` Python BLE library provides us with this bluetooth interface.

#### RPi Pico MicroPython Script
```py
import aioble
import asyncio
import bluetooth
from machine import Pin
from sense import Sensor

# Device name
DEVICE_NAME = "temp-sense"

# Custom service
SERVICE_UUID = bluetooth.UUID(0x9999)

# org.bluetooth.characteristic.analog
ANALOG_UUID = bluetooth.UUID(0x25A8)

# org.bluetooth.characteristic.gap.appearance.xml
GATT_APPEARANCE_GENERIC_SENSOR = const(1344)

ADV_INTERVAL_US = const(250000)

LED_GPIO = const(16)
ADC_PORT = const(2)
SAMPLING_RATE_MS = const(500)
TIMER_ID = const(-1)

async def main():
    service = aioble.Service(SERVICE_UUID)
    characteristic = aioble.Characteristic(service, ANALOG_UUID, read=True, notify=True)
    aioble.register_services(service)

    Sensor(adc_port=ADC_PORT, sampling_rate_ms=SAMPLING_RATE_MS, timer_id=TIMER_ID, bt_char=characteristic)

    led = Pin(LED_GPIO, Pin.OUT)
    led.value(0)
    while True:
        async with await aioble.advertise(
            ADV_INTERVAL_US,
            name=DEVICE_NAME,
            services=[SERVICE_UUID],
            appearance=GATT_APPEARANCE_GENERIC_SENSOR,
        ) as connection: #type: ignore
            led.value(1)
            await connection.disconnected(timeout_ms=None)
            led.value(0)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

## Data processing

I've added data processing functions that get accessed by a desktop Python script. These functions take the 16-bit readings, convert them to temperatures, and use the `scipy` library's least squares linear curve fit function to generate the coefficients for a a decaying exponential equation that represents the temperature curve of a hot liquid cooling down to room temperature.

#### Desktop Data Processing Script
```py
import argparse
import asyncio
import data_processing as dp
import psql_db
from client_bt import ClientBT

_ANALOG_UUID = "000025a8-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb"
_DEVICE_NAME = "temp-sense"

async def main():
    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
    parser.add_argument('-s', '--sampling_duration', type=int, required=True)
    sampling_duration = parser.parse_args().sampling_duration

    db = psql_db.Database
    db.get_params()

    bt = ClientBT(device_name=_DEVICE_NAME, analog_uuid=_ANALOG_UUID)
    await bt.receive_measurements(duration=sampling_duration)

    (a, b, T_amb) = dp.get_decay_params(data=bt.data)

    db.connect()
    db.create_table()
    db.add_record(duration=sampling_duration, a=a, b=b, T_amb=T_amb)
    db.disconnect()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

## PSQL Database

I've added methods for storing and retrieving the coefficients of the generated decaying exponential equation using `psycopg2`.

## Graphing

I've also created a separate desktop Python script for retrieving the decaying exponential equation coefficients (from the PSQL DB) and plotting it using `numpy`.

#### Desktop Graphing Script
```py
import psql_db
from data_graphing import plot_temp_func

if __name__ == "__main__":
    db = psql_db.Database
    db.get_params()
    db.connect()
    records = db.get_all_records()
    for record in records:
        print(record)

    db.disconnect()

    data_id = int(input("Enter data_id for desired dataset: "))
    for record in records:
        if record[0] == data_id:
            duration = record[2]
            a = record[3]
            b = record[4]
            T_amb = record[5]

    plot_temp_func(duration_s=duration, a=a, b=b, T_amb=T_amb)
```
